# Translations

Directus supports internationalization across the entire application. All collections, fields, and App text can be offered in any number of languages. On this page we will describe how the different areas of the platform handle multilingual support.

## Application Text

The core codebase uses the [vue-i18n](https://github.com/kazupon/vue-i18n) plugin to manage the translations across the platform. The language files and the init code are located in the `/src/lang/` folder of the app repo. The plugin contains a [bunch of methods](https://kazupon.github.io/vue-i18n/) to render these translations.

The one that's most often used is `$t`:

```vue
<p>{{ $t('collections') }}</p>
```

## Translations in Extensions

Extensions can provide their own translations to extend those available within the core app. The `meta.json` file of each extension has a `translation` key that allows you to add new translations for use in the system.

```json
"translation": {
  "en-US": {
    "color": "Color",
    "input": "Input",
    "input_comment": "The unit in which the user will enter the data",
    "output": "Output",
    "output_comment": "The unit in which the data gets saved to the DB",
    "format": "Format",
    "format_comment": "Show value as color swatch",
    "palette": "Palette",
    "palette_comment": "Add color options as hex values",
    "palette_only": "Palette Only",
    "palette_only_comment": "Only allow the user to pick from the palette",
    "allow_alpha": "Allow alpha",
    "allow_alpha_comment": "Allow values with an alpha channel"
  }
}
```

The translations in extensions are namespaced to avoid conflicts between packages (/ the main app). The namespace is `<ext-type>-<name>-<string>`. The above example is of the color interface. To use those translations, you have to use `$t('interfaces-color-palette_only')`.

You can even use the translations in the `meta.json` to translate values _in_ that same `meta.json` key. So meta! This is especially useful to add translatable names for the extension and its options.

## Content Translations

In addition to translating the CMS itself, you may want to translate the actual managed content too. This is done through our core [Translations Interface](#).